---
layout: post
title:  "The '100 Days of BABOK' Challenge"
desc:   "My committment to 100 days of studying the BABOK"
tags:   [ "100 Days of BABOK" ]
date:   2016-12-30
---

## My goal for the 100 Days of BABOK challenge:

> To form a greater understanding of the content within the BABOK, in preparation for CBAP certification.

To go about this goal, I am commiting to a #100DaysOfBABOK challenge.

## My rules for the 100 Days of BABOK:

1. The challenge is: to spend a minimum of **30 minutes each day** for **100 consecutive days** studying **the BABOK**.

1. I can study for longer than this time on any given day, but 30 minutes is the minimum.

1. This challenge recognises that the BABOK is not limited to the BABOK Guide book *(titled 'A **Guide** to The Business Analysis Body of Knowledge')*.
Other materials (that are directly related to a BABOK knowledge area) are also relevant, and intended to be consumed.

1. The following activities are included:
  - Reading the BABOK Guide,
  - Reading other materials directly related to BABOK knowledge areas,
  - Taking notes & summarising the BABOK.

1. The following activities are **not** included:
  - Time at work (or elsewhere) spent on general "BA tasks",
  - Logging of BA work hrs (required for BA cert.),
  - Admin tasks related to applying for the IIBA exam,
  - Other tasks that are not specifically aligned with the goal.

1. In the event that I cannot (or fail to) meet the minimum of 30 minutes on a given day, then I will be required to double my effort on the following day (i.e. 60 minutes). I can do this no more than twice in any two week period.

1. I am required to publicly report on my progress throughout the challenge on social media. This is to ensure I form a personal accountability for the challenge.
  - I will use Twitter ( [#100DaysOfBABOK][twitter-100daysofbabok]{:target="_blank"} ), and my personal blog, to document this.

1. I can **add** or **change** rules throughout the challenge; however, only if I find that I am not forming habits which align with the goal.



## Inspiration

My inspiration for taking on this challenge, is largely thanks to [Alexander Kallaway][kallaway-twitter]{:target="_blank"}'s appearance
on the [CodeNewbie Podcast, episode #120][code-newbie-120]{:target="_blank"}. Well worth a listen :smile:.



## Planned Updates

I shall be commencing this challenge in **January 2017**.

Feel free to come back to this site, or check [my twitter feed][jackbarker-twitter]{:target="_blank"} for updates, or to send your support!



[code-newbie-120]: http://www.codenewbie.org/podcast/100-days-of-code "Ep. 120 | 100 Days of Code"
[kallaway-twitter]: http://twitter.com/ka11away "Alexander Kallaway (Twitter)"
[jackbarker-twitter]: http://twitter.com/jackbarker "Jack Barker (Twitter)"
[twitter-100daysofbabok]: http://twitter.com/search?f=tweets&q=%23100DaysOfBABOK "#100DaysOfBABOK (Twitter)"
